## Question

Dear Liz,

I recently left the organization I worked for for ten years.

It was a great place to work for a long time but it got worse the longer I stayed. As you always say, fear replaced trust and it became impossible for me to manage my team.

It took me five months of under-the-radar job hunting to get into my new company.

I'm so much happier in my this job. Thanks for the motivation I needed to make a change!

One of the biggest problems I ran into as a manager in my old company was the phenomenon I call the "top performer problem."

I managed a team of 12 great employees. Not everybody I hired was a top performer, but I had three or four ultra-high-performing people on my team. My company made it extremely hard for me to do the right thing by those employees.

If somebody on my team (or any other team) did an amazing job one year and their manager wanted to give them a special bonus or a bigger-than-average raise, we practically had to walk over hot coals to get approval for that.

That was the case even when the CEO himself went out of his way to tell the top performer's manager, "Hang onto that employee — he's a super star!"

How am I supposed to "hang onto" a top performer without money to pay him or her, and without any ability to acknowledge the outstanding employee's contributions?

I had three amazing employees recruited out of my department and finally I said, "Enough." I need to work for a company that doesn't just talk about talent, but actually rewards it.

Here are some of the frustrations I dealt with around the issue of managing highly competent people:

1. Our VP would set goals and my team always met them. My outstanding employees sailed far past their goals, but I wasn't allowed to reward them for that, even with something as simple as more flexibility in their schedule.<br/ >If somebody blew past their goals the response from HR was, "Their goals were too modest, then." Really? The goals came from my VP, not from me.<br/>What's the point of giving someone a goal to hit if their reward for reaching the goal is "Oh well, it must not have been the right goal then."?

2. When someone on my team made a huge contribution to our company's bottom line, there was no bonus, no day off, no formal recognition of any kind — even though the senior executives would cheer and high-five one another about the outstanding employee's achievement.<be/><br/>If it was a win for them, why wasn't it a win for the employee who did the work?

3. At one point one of the smartest people I've ever worked with, much less supervised ("Cory") told me that if he couldn't get access to another VP in the company whose input he needed, he would quit. Cory is not a high-maintenance or emotional person — he was that frustrated.

I conveyed the message to my VP and asked him to intervene with the difficult VP who didn't want to step off his pedestal to deal with a "mere" rank-and-file employee. My VP wouldn't do it.

He never said, "I won't do it" but he said, "The issue is that talking with Cory will be intimidating to my fellow VP, because Cory is a subject-matter expert and the VP isn't."

I had to tell Cory I couldn't help him. That's when I started job-hunting myself.

Every company says, "We want the smartest and most talented employees we can get!" but Liz, in my experience that isn't true. Companies like my former employer can't handle high-performing employees.

They hamstring them. They take away an outstanding employee's motivation to succeed. They don't recognize their achievements. They only give them harder and harder goals to reach.

When I interviewed with my current boss, I asked him a lot of questions about my ability to give latitude and rewards to outstanding employees and he completely understood the problem.

Cory has his own business so I didn't try to recruit him, but it is so nice to be able to treat the employees on my team the way they deserve to be treated.

Thanks for your great advice and encouragement, Liz! I'm so glad I got out of that environment.

Yours,

Corin

## Answer
Dear Corin,

I'm glad you got out, too!

Cory and everybody else who has ever achieved much more than their job description requires knows the pain of doing a job too well.

I call it the Curse of Competence. When you easily fly past your goals, here are five bad things that can happen to you:

1. Your boss doesn't like it, because they feel it makes them look bad (because if you can hit your goals, why can't everybody do it?).

2. Your boss is thrilled with your results but some higher-up boss doesn't like it, because they don't want to have to specifically reward one employee. If they started doling out special pay increases, responsibilities, titles or any other valuable commodity, it would make their job harder (so they think). They want everybody to do their job to the standard, fall in line and be quiet.

3. Some of the other employees might not like the fact that one or a few of their co-workers are running circles around them, productivity-or-innovation-wise.

4. When somebody is amazing at their job, their desk can become a dumping ground for problems nobody else wants to deal with. Their manager can unwittingly or intentionally contribute to the problem.<br/><br/>Some managers feel that if an employee can finish in 20 hours what it takes everybody else 40 hours to do, the obvious next step is to give the high-performing employee so much work that they'll never have a break!

5. When an employee hits their targets and exceeds them year after year, their managers can start to take the high-performing employee for granted. They say, "That's just how Cory is. He gets a lot of stuff done. Let's not make big deal out of it — we don't want him to get a swelled head!"

In John Steinbeck's novel The Pearl (spoiler alert) a pearl fisher finds a huge pearl and tries to sell it to one of the pearl buyers back on land.

The pearl buyers heard about the massive, invaluable pearl found in the area and agreed among themselves not to pay the pearl fisher what the pearl was worth — or anywhere close.

That's how it can be sometimes with outstanding employees. Nobody wants to recognize the top performer's value — in case the employee figures out that the company needs them, and starts making demands!

You were smart to get out of your last job but I'm glad you learned the powerful lesson you did. You can never take any employee for granted. You can never assume that anyone on your team isn't getting headhunted right and left.

The more the talent market heats up, the more of that activity we will see. After all, so-called Passive Job Seekers (people with jobs who were not job-hunting until a recruiter contacted them) are many organizations' favorite candidates.

When you have a management job in an organization that won't let you lead your team the way you know they should be led, you have to bail — exactly the way you did.

With luck your former employer will eventually get the memo but if they don't, Mother Nature will have a lesson or two for them to learn.

That's none of your concern though — you're already miles ahead, racing down your path!

Yours,

Liz
